>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
So, let's move directly
to our first session
on the development of
Accessibility
Conformance Testing rules.
I want to ask on the
virtual stage, Wilco Fiers
from Deque and Kasper Isager
from Siteimprove and Carlos
Duarte - Carlos Duarte
from University of Lisbon.
If the three of you could
just briefly - Wilco can
you say a few words about
yourself, just introduce
yourself to the audience.
>> WILCO FIERS:
I sure can.
Can you guys
hear me alright?
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Yep, all fine.
>> WILCO FIERS:
Fantastic.
Alright, so my
name is Wilco Fiers.
I work for Deque Systems.
I am a product owner
and project manager.
There, I am responsible
for Axe-core which is Deque's
open source accessibility
engine which Shadi mentioned.
In addition to that,
I spend part of my time
on W3C activities.
I am the chair of the ACT
Rules Community Group, a
facilitator on the ACT
Task Force, as well as a
member of the Silver
Task Force which is
currently developing WCAG 3.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Thank you, Wilco.
And all these groups that
Wilco mentioned, the task
force and community
group and so on, will
be explained in
this presentation.
>> WILCO FIERS:
Don't worry about.
We'll get it.
We'll get to it.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
We'll get there.
Piece by piece.
We love acronyms in W3C.
>> WILCO FIERS: I have
too many hats also, to be fair.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: Kasper,
please introduce yourself.
>> KASPER ISAGER:
Yes, I will make it short.
I don't have as many hats.
My name is Kasper Isager
and I work as the product
owner of Alfa
at Siteimprove.
And then Alfa is
our accessibility
conformance test engine.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Welcome.
Well, you don't
need to be so humble.
Kasper is a mastermind of
a lot of the accessibility
engines at
Siteimprove as far as I know.
>> CARLOS DUARTE:
Hi, I'm Carlos Duarte.
I teach - well my main
responsibility is to teach
computer science at the
University of Lisbon, although
my research is focused a
lot on web accessibility.
And so, as part of my
responsibilities in teaching
computer science, I also
teach web accessibility to my
students and I also
have some more hats.
Together with Wilco,
I'm co-chairing the ACT
Community Group and also
another hat for the W3C
where I do work for the
Education and Outreach
Working Group, specifically
on preparing the new - the
curricula, the new web
accessibility curricula.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Thank you, Carlos.
And Wilco, go ahead.
Take it away please
with the presentation.
And this time
you are muted.
>> WILCO FIERS:
I should unmute.
Do you mind going
to the next slide?
Thank you very much.
So, I just wanted to get into
the goals of ACT really quick.
Again, ACT stands
for Accessibility
Conformance Testing.
The project wasn't
setup as part of WAI-Tools.
It predates it
by several years.
Some of you may also know
it as Auto-WCAG which is a
group that later got
renamed to the ACT Rules Group.
And the reason that
group was started off is to
improve consistency in
accessibility testing.
So, one of the greater
challenges Shadi mentioned
is consistent testing.
You do want, when you
get a report from somebody,
for that report to be
accurate and based on
well-founded ideas.
Otherwise, you might
fix something and you have
somebody else take a look at
it and they find more things.
Or they may find
completely contradicting
things which can be
fairly frustrating.
If you don't have a clear
definition of when your
project is sufficiently
accessible, that makes
life pretty hard.
This kind of gets
exacerbated when you look
at something like European
Union which is starting to
track the accessibility of
government websites across
the whole of Europe.
If Denmark tests things
in a different way than the
Netherlands does, what
you'll end up with is with
results that don't -
aren't very comparable.
Even worse, you might have
a website that is relevant
in multiple countries and
if they used different
testing methodologies to
gauge whether or not you
complied with the law -
because that's what we're
getting to at a certain
point; it should be legally
required to meet these
standards - if they are
testing along different
methods, you may find that
your website complies in one
country but not in the other
even though you're testing
along the same WCAG standard.
So, that's really the
issue and the problem
isn't too extreme.
Like, it's not like WCAG
is all over the place and
results go anywhere.
But there are differences
there and it kind of erodes
the trust that you can
get from results like that.
So, that is what
ACT was setup to do.
And our goal there is, as
I mentioned, we started
first off with Auto-WCAG
which is really focused on
doing this for automation.
But then we broadened
it out to address testing
methodologies as well.
And testing methodology
is not a well-established
term but if you ask
around in accessibility
institutions around the
world, most of them have
some sort of document that
tells you how to interpret
WCAG, like what you do
with this particular element
on a page and with that
particular element on a page.
One of the great things
about the kind of accessibility
guidelines is that it was
written in a way that it is
technology agnostic so that
it can live for a long time,
so that it isn't just
applicable to one particular
version of the web standards,
but it should be applicable
to all of them.
But that also means there
is some vagueness there
that does require
that interpretation.
So those interpretations,
those are what we are
trying to capture with the
ACT Rules and so this is
applicable really to lots
and lots of organizations.
Next slide please.
So, we've developed this
rules format, the ACT Rules
Format, and the benefits
of that are fairly wide.
So, like I mentioned,
we've been working with
this format for
several years now.
That is really the goal
of this project, is to use
the rules format and
develop these rules.
And it has really improved
the quality of the organizations
that have adopted this,
like in noticeable ways things
have gotten
more consistent.
That has been between the
project partners but also
organizations outside of
the WAI-Tools Project that
have been using the ACT
Rules to make their tools,
to make their testing
methodologies more consistent.
So, we are seeing
concrete evidence that this
approach seems
to be working.
By writing these rules,
we then have a more
authoritative set of
things that we know are
conforming to WCAG or are
not conforming to WCAG and
what we've ended up doing
is to share these rules
with the W3C and to
have those published.
There are currently eleven
of the rules that have been
developed, that have
been published by the W3C.
So, these are really
validated by the people
that wrote the standard.
So, this gives us a lot
more credibility as well
for the work
that we've done.
This is the way you're
supposed to interpret WCAG
for the HTML standard
or for SVG documents.
And by doing this, we
resolve a lot of open
questions for WCAG.
One example of such a
question is if you have an
image with the text right
next to it and the image
basically says the same as
the text, does that image
need to have a text
alternative or not?
It's kind of a
debated question.
Some accessibility
experts say yes, some
accessibility experts say
no, you absolutely should
not do that, and the rules
answer this question for us
definitively so we do
not have to have these
conversations anymore.
It clears things
up in a lot of ways.
And by clearing this up,
we enable organizations to
test more consistently,
which - allows accessibility
results to be
more widely trusted.
You can trust that one
organization using ACT
Rules will produce almost
identical results to another
organization using
those same sets of rules.
There can still be
small differences but the
differences are far smaller
than what they used to be.
Next slide please.
So, just to get into
some of the things that you
get from ACT Rules.
I think I might have been
going over time already,
so I'll keep that quick.
So, ACT Rules use
unambiguous language which
is great because it
helps you answer things
in a very precise way.
If you need to know what
something means, how to
interpret a thing,
the ACT Rules offer a
very precise description.
So there's no more, well, it
depends kind of thing going on.
ACT Rules are very clear
on when something should
pass and when
something should fail.
ACT Rules also document
assistive technologies.
If something doesn't work
in some screen readers but
it does in others, you
can find that information
in the rules and this
helps you frame how to
understand the results.
So, in some cases you may
still see an issue if you
try something with a
particular screen reader
that you don't
see in the report.
That really helps
you understand what the
results actually mean.
Then they
document assumptions.
So, if there are very
unlikely edge cases or if
there's a particular
interpretation that may be
controversial or that is
unusual, then that will be
documented in the
rule itself so you will
understand why is the
result the way it is and
that really helps you
frame the results again.
And then lastly but not
least important either,
diagnostic for
tools and methodologies.
We want ACT Rules to
be something that can be
implemented irrespective
of whether or not you're
doing it manually or
if you're automating.
That really
shouldn't matter.
It shouldn't matter if
you're using a particular
technology stack in your tool
or some other technology stack.
These are written in
a way that everybody is
doing accessibility testing.
Whether it be fully
automated or completely
manual or somewhere in
between, you should be
able to implement these.
I think with that, I am
passing it on to Kasper.
>> KASPER ISAGER:
Alrighty.
So, I will just briefly
talk about the rules that
we developed as part of
the project and then also
briefly touch on how these
were actually developed.
So, just for an overview,
we initially set out to
develop a total of seventy
of these ACT Rules, of
which we wanted thirty
to be fully automatable,
twenty-five of them were
to be semi-automatable,
and fifteen were to be
completely manual rules.
And we started out by
trying to cover as much
crowd as possible in
terms of the type of content
that the rules dealt with.
So, we were looking at
the text content, graphics,
audio/visual media, all
the stuff that was really
based on, in many cases,
the existing rulesets that
the individual project
partners already had
implemented in
their individual tools.
And then later on as the
project progressed, we started
seeing more and more
specialized rules focused
on increasingly narrow
aspects of their content.
We started looking at
stuff like orientational
arcs implemented using
CSS and also things like CSS
declarations that couldn't
be overwritten by the users.
So, much more specialized
failure cases than the
stuff that we
initially covered.
We also ended up
developing several rules
that didn't relate
directly to the WCAG but
we are looking at things
like WAI-ARIA conformance
and also its associated
authoring practices that
define best practices
for use of WAI-ARIA.
And with that, I
will cue the next slide.
Thank you.
So, as already mentioned,
these rules were developed
in an open W3C Community
Group, and within that
group the first thing we
of course had to decide,
also among the project
partners, were which rules
we actually
wanted to develop.
And for this, we had
a list of a defined
selection criteria so we
would look at things like,
so, a proposed rule for
example or how many new
additional success
criteria from the WCAG
does it cover that we haven't
already covered, and what is
the, sort of the options both
across the project partners
and how easy would it be
to implement in our tools,
and also how likely was
it that this was a rule that
would be picked
up by the community.
And then once we had
selected rules to develop,
we would incubate them in
this open community group
with input both from the
project partners but also
the wider community.
And this is really when
the bulk of the work was
spent, with the biggest
and most important point
probably being
reaching a consensus on
interpretation of whatever
success criteria it was
that the rule is
supposed to test and also
researching, like, the
real world implications of
what the rule would look
at, figuring out so under
what assumptions would the
thing that the rule looked
at actually be a problem.
And in case those
assumptions didn't hold,
then would there actually
be an actual problem?
So, really finding out
where, you know, theory
and reality aligned
and agreeing on an
interpretation that will
then form the basis of the
rules that we developed.
And once we had the
rules developed, they were
implemented by the project
partners in our various
tools and also validated
by another project partner
on this fixed set of
real web pages that we
had selected beforehand.
And then once implemented
and validated and matured
in the community, we would
ship them off to the ACT
Task Force to eventually
be included as official
live resources
on the WAI webpage.
And with that, I will
pass it on to Carlos.
>> CARLOS DUARTE:
Thank you, Kasper.
I'm going to start by
talking a bit about how
does this
impact you, okay.
So, what does it mean
for you, for the community,
that we have
developed seventy rules?
So, first it means that we
now have more than seventy
different aspects about WCAG
that at least three different
organizations agree on
how they need to be tested.
Okay, so I think this is
already very significant.
And when I say at
least three different
organizations, I'm not
saying three different
project partners, and
this is something that
Kasper just talked about.
So, because the main work
we've done in this project
was done in the scope of
the ACT Community Group,
which means that it was
an open group and its work
was publicly available.
So, we are not
just three project
partners reaching consensus.
It's wider than that.
And there were involvement
at different levels from
these organizations
outside the project that
fortunately was not
just at the rule writing
and reviewing level.
So, not surprisingly, the
project partners included
in their products, the ACT
Rules that we were developing.
But I think we can say that
we are really happy to see
that other organizations
started to do the same.
So, the other two vendors
have now products that
include conformance
testing using ACT Rules,
manual testing
methodologies that also
include ACT Rules.
So, from this you can
understand that ACT Rules
already have an impact on
several tools, on several
methodologies, and let me
stress this out again, not
only from the tools
and methodologies made
available by the
project partners.
So, if you use one of
these tools or if you have
your projects checked
with one of those
methodologies, then
ACT Rules have already
impacted you, and we can
also say - you will be
able to hear about this
in the next presentation -
that these tools and
these methodologies are being
used by monitoring
bodies across Europe.
So, we are already
witnessing the impact of
ACT Rules at
a large scale.
And we believe that
ACT Rules will play an
important role for the
European monitoring
efforts as Wilco said.
So, given the consistency
that the ACT Rules offer,
even when monitoring
agencies from different
countries use different
tools, if those tools
implement ACT Rules,
then their results can be
compared with a higher
degree of confidence.
We think this is already a
great start but in the future,
we can only hope that the
impact will be even bigger.
So, as also Wilco
mentioned, eleven of the
ACT Rules developed by the
project and adopted by the
community have already
been published by the W3C.
There are more in the
pipeline that should soon
increase this number and I
think that the interest in
ACT Rules is only bound
to grow when the community
starts finding
ACT Rules elsewhere.
Shadi, can you move to
the next slide, please?
Thanks.
So, you have a screenshot,
so a sneak peek at the
Understanding document for
WCAG 2.2 soon to be released.
And you can find there -
yes, thanks, Shadi - a new
section on Understanding
ACT Rules and we have this
section at the same level
that we have currently for
the Understanding Techniques
for WCAG's success criteria.
So, this is really
exciting and we are really
seeing ACT Rules being
adopted and promoted.
Okay, so now I want to
talk to you about how you
can contribute to
keep ACT Rules going on.
So, we like to believe
that this was a successful
project and that we really
kickstarted the work on
ACT Rules but now it's up
to you, to the community
to keep this
momentum going.
And fortunately, there
are many ways in which
you can contribute.
For instance, if you are
a tool or a methodology
developer, you can
start by checking how well
aligned your project is
to the current consensus
expressed in ACT Rules.
So you can read the rules
that are related to the
checks that you support.
You can see how well you do
on the published test cases.
And you don't agree with
some aspect of the rule?
Great.
We did try our best but
we know we are not flawless.
So, raise an issue
reporting what you found
and it will be discussed
in the community and the
rule will be
updated if needed.
It wouldn't be
the first time.
While you are at it,
you can send us the
implementation reports of
your tools and methodologies.
In the ACT Rules website,
we have a section for
implementations where
all reports that we
receive are displayed.
So, this is a great way
to let the community know
that your products are
supported by ACT Rules.
And irrespectively of
your developing tools or
methodologies or being a
user of such or a monitoring
body or someone
that's responsible for
publishing accessible
information on the web, be
happy because there are
other ways you can help.
We are always looking for more
people to help reviewing rules.
So, it's great to have
people with different
experience and perspectives
contributing to this work.
If you have an idea for
a rule, you can write it.
Don't worry if
you feel overwhelmed
about writing a rule.
You can team up with
others and do it as a
collaborative project.
That's what we are all
doing here, collaborating
to make the web
more accessible.
And to do any of this,
you don't have to be a W3C
member, but if you are or
want to become one, then
you can actively
contribute to support the
adoption of more rules
into WCAG 2.2 and potentially
the new WCAG 3.
So, Shadi, I think we
can move to the final slide.
And you can find more
details about ACT Rules
and how you can
join this community
at act-rules.github.io.
And thanks for listening
and I think Shadi, now you
want to take some
questions, right?
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: Yes,
questions are coming in.
Thank you, everybody who
is contributing questions.
If you have questions, now
is the time in the Q&A function.
Before we get to that,
just to get a little bit
of a feel, how many people
are subscribed to the
community group and
roughly how many are
active in the calls and,
you know, the active part
of the work, not
just subscribed?
Who wants to
take that question?
>> WILCO FIERS:
I'll take it.
It depends a little bit
because there are two
groups, one in W3C itself
and a Community Group which
has no official standing at
the W3C but is hosted by it.
The Community Group has,
I believe, around ninety
members right now.
As for active
participants, again that
depends on how
active you mean active.
I think right now we have
ten to twelve people that
regularly attend meetings
like every month, every
twice a month,
something like that.
There's a whole bunch of
people that are slightly
less active but that
still regularly contribute.
As a rule comes up that
they are interested in,
they'll drop a review.
That happens quite a
lot and I frequently get
surprised by new people
who have come out of
nowhere and
submitted some information.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Thanks.
Yeah, I just wanted to
give a little bit of an
idea and people are, as
you were saying, Wilco,
participating
in different ways.
Some people are attending
the calls and discussing things.
Others completely
asynchronously, they are
using the GitHub platform.
>> WILCO FIERS: Yeah,
it's - it takes relatively
little time for
anybody to participate.
You can spend as little
or as much time as you want.
I do also think it's worth
mentioning that just from
the people that have
joined over the last year
maybe, year and half, I
frequently hear that they
join and they find it a lot
of fun and they learn a lot.
It is a group where you
get to learn quite a lot
of in-depth accessibility.
So, if you're interested
in the nitty gritty details
of accessibility,
this is really a good
group for you
to participate in.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Great.
So, one of the questions
that we have is - I'll
read it aloud - WCAG is
supposed to be interpreted
to be relevant in
different contexts.
In one country, users
might be using older assistive
technology for example and
it would be relevant to use
all the techniques
to meet the requirement.
Then in a country where
all users have the latest
versions of assistive
technology, in practice it
means a solution that is
good enough in Germany for
example, might not be good
enough in Italy for example.
And that is fine.
So, how do the ACT Rules
take this into account?
Silence?
>> WILCO FIERS:
You want to pick somebody?
I mean I can answer all
of them if you want, but.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Go ahead.
>> WILCO FIERS: Okay, so,
it's a really good question.
Thank you.
How do ACT Rules
deal with that?
ACT Rules have an
accessibility support
section, so if we know
about these differences,
we will mention
them in that section.
You can find information
about things that may work
slightly differently
depending on which
technology you were using.
That information is
documented in the rule and
if you happen to know any
that isn't, please open an
issue and we will add it.
It belongs in
those documents.
I also think it's
worth mentioning those
differences aren't
that big anymore.
The types of assistive
technologies that people
are using tend to
be international ones.
There are only a handful
of big players out there,
so the differences
really aren't that big
anymore these days.
What does matter a little
bit is whether or not you
exclude some of them.
So, for example, if you
want to exclude a common
screen reader on the Mac,
you might have slightly
different tasks then if
you wanted to include those.
The rule documents this
kind of information for you.
That freedom is
available within the rule.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Thank you.
Kasper, I think
this one is for you.
So, do ACT Rules only
cover accessibility tests that
can be semi-automated
or fully automated?
Or are there also
rules that clarify rather
subjective WCAG criteria
like 2.4.6, adding the
label that needs to
be manually evaluated?
>> KASPER ISAGER:
You know, I can definitely
provide an answer to that.
And the answer is yes,
we also have affordances
for manual rules.
I also mentioned we
did set out to implement
fifteen fully manual
rules, so rules that could
not reasonably be
implemented in automated
tools but could be
implemented as part of
manual test methodologies.
I would say, the manual
rules are slightly more
difficult in the sense
that you still have to
follow the ACT Rules
from it, of course.
And the ACT Rules from it
are fairly strict on what
kind of rules you
all have to write.
One of the big things
is that the applicability
section of the rules for
the description of what
kinds of content the rule
applies to has to be both
completely
unambiguous and objective.
And for some of the
success criteria, the
objectiveness criteria
is really difficult to
meet, it has proved.
So, yes, you can author
manual rules using the
ACT Rules format.
But it may be slightly
more difficult that you
still have to
remain objective in the
applicability section
of the rule and that's
difficult to do with some
of the more, I would say,
subjective WCAG
success criteria.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Right, but that's - I
think an important
- thank you, Kasper.
I think that's an
important question because
it also came up in the
questions that people
asked in the
registration form.
I think a lot of people
think about when they hear
rules, they automatically
think of automated tools
only and I think here
it's really important to
emphasize that these
apply to both manual and not -
in fact, actually, we
have several rules that we
created as part of the
project that relate to
that specific success
criteria on headings and
we have others on labels.
So, yes - it is done
and we also have manual
methodology developers who
have been implementing these
rules in their methodology,
comparing their methodology.
Speaking of, this is a
question that also came up
in the registration form.
Carlos, maybe
this is for you.
So, somebody wants to
create an implementation
report for their tool
or for their methodology.
How do they do that?
Can you first explain what
an implementation report
is and then how they
actually do that, how they
provide such information?
>> CARLOS DUARTE:
Yeah, sure.
So, perhaps I need to
start by providing a bit
of context on what's inside
an ACT Rule and specifically
an ACT Rule besides
having an applicability and
expectation as
a set of examples.
Some of them are examples
of elements, documents,
pages that meet the
criteria and so pass the rules.
Some of them are failed
examples and some of them
are examples of pieces of
code that are inapplicable
for that rule.
So, what we expect to
have in an implementation
report is how well does
your implementation fair
against those examples?
So, does it pass
the test examples?
Does it fail the
failed examples?
And does it not consider
the inapplicable examples
of such a rule?
So, an implementation
report is basically a
report of the outcomes of
your implementation for the
different test cases that
are described in an ACT Rule.
How can you submit one and
how can you prepare one?
Well, we expect your reports
to be provided using EARL.
The Evaluation And Report
Language, serialized in JSON-LD.
So, if you do provide us
that, we can import that
into our website and
display it together with
the current displayed
implementation reports.
We have a section on
the website, so if you go
online to the website,
there's a section dedicated
specifically to
implementations and there
are instructions
there on how you can
submit an implementation.
And we have some tools
that you can use to help
you prepare an
implementation report.
We have all the test cases
for all the rules accessible.
So, it can help you
prepare for implementation.
If you have some
problems setting up an
infrastructure for
preparing implementation,
do reach out to us and we
should be able to assist
you in that,
in your project.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Thank you, Carlos.
While I have you on
the line, we're kind of
running out of time.
There are more questions
coming so we might need to
push some of these
towards the end of the
day just to move on.
But I think, maybe
briefly, Carlos, this one
it says, can you give a
concrete example of the
rule on should we have
alt text in an image if the
text that is next to
the image is the same?
I think it would help
to understand how you
choose a specific rule.
I think here, if you can
explain the test cases in
the context here that are
part of the rules to help
you understand what the
rule actually refers to.
>> CARLOS DUARTE: Wilco
you seem to have the rules
in your head
better than I.
Which - this is definitely
coming from the example
that you gave in
your presentation.
Can you point me -?
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Sorry, we don't actually
have the time
to go into this.
>> CARLOS DUARTE:
Okay.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA: We
could come back to this later.
So maybe let me summarize.
So, the point is that
this rule, there would be a
rule that is talking
about, let's say text
alternatives for images
and these will consider
different techniques and
the examples, the test
cases in the rule would
have an example when what
happens if there is a
description next to the image.
What in that case, what
the alt text should be?
So, if we were to write
the rule for a good alt
text, so the rule that we
have right now only checks
for alt text
whether it exists or not.
And if we would have a
rule that checks how good
an alt text is, it would
be - we would have tests
cases where we would
have different types of
situations and so that
people could compare test
cases towards that.
Again, we could come
back to this later on.
We are kind of running
out of time but one of the
things that was asked
is, do rules cover all
of the success criteria?
Or will the work
continue to cover everything?
Who wants to
take that one?
>> WILCO FIERS:
I'll go.
So, we haven't completed
all the success criteria.
I don't know if we ever
will fully complete
everything but we
certainly intend to
continue to go
on with this work.
WAI-Tools Project is over
but the ACT work is not.
This is going to be, you
know, ongoing projects to
continue to
extend the coverage.
Some of the things not
currently done is so - our
main focus has been on HTML
where it sees it as an SVG.
There are definitely
still gaps in those,
specifically the things
that are difficult to
automate, but beyond
that, there are other
technologies to
consider as well.
There are currently no
rules for PDF for example.
That is certainly a
thing that I would love
to see us develop.
So, there's definitely
more work and it is also
good to mention that this
is an ongoing process.
As technology develops,
as the HTML standard
develops, as assistive
technologies develop,
these rules will
continually get updated.
So, unlike WCAG, these
rules are an ongoing thing
that need to be maintained
so this work is never going
to end and I'm going
to continue doing this
until I retire, so.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Yeah, I like to use the
metaphor of snowballs,
especially now in winter for
many of us, so snowballing,
and I think this project
started the snowball with
seventy rules and now it's
really, as Carlos was
saying, now it's up to you the
community to
help continue that.
Speaking of, Wilco,
while I have you on the
line, there was
a question for you.
This might be a
misunderstanding.
Can you talk about how
authoritative the ACT
Rules are versus the
WCAG success criteria?
What is the normative part
and what is informative?
>> WILCO FIERS:
That's a fantastic question.
So, the WCAG success
criteria are published by
the W3C as a
Recommendation.
They've gone through
an extensive process of
public reviews by
the W3C and they are
an internationally
recognized standard.
So, those are
solid as anything.
ACT Rules are
written by smaller groups.
They go through a less
involved process of review
and they get published
still by the W3C but not
by the whole of the W3C.
There is no massive
W3C-wide review but there
is a review and an
approval that comes from
the Accessibility
Guidelines Working Group
which are the
authors of WCAG.
So, you can see them as
these are rules published
by the authors of WCAG,
whereas WCAG itself is
published by the W3C as
a standards organization
as a whole, so.
>> SHADI ABOU-ZAHRA:
Thanks.
We call these -
internally we call
them supporting documents.
These are the so-called
Techniques documents, the
Understanding documents
- Understanding WCAG 2.
So, with every success
criteria, there is a
document associated with
it called Understanding
Success Criteria XYZ that
explains more background
and would help and so on.
Then there are several
Techniques, how you can
meet that requirement,
and now we also have tests
associated with
success criteria.
These supporting documents
are informative, so they're
not normative like the
success criteria themselves.
That is what you have
to meet but these are all -
all these supporting
documents help you make
sure that you meet
the requirements.
Good.
I will take the liberty
of answering two more
questions and
then we'll move on.
One question was
when will WCAG 2.2, when
will it be released?
That was a teaser from
you, Carlos, because you
mentioned that
in your slides.
Currently, it's planned
for mid-2021, so mid this
year we expect the new
version of WCAG 2.2, and
hopefully with as many
test rules as possible as
part of the
supporting documents.
And then there was
another really good question.
When can we expect -
can we expect the WCAG 3
guidelines to follow the
same approach as ACT Rules
so WCAG 3 success
criteria can be tested more
objectively with
automation where relevant?
This is a really good
question because just this
- just last week on
Thursday, fresh, hot off
the press, we, the W3C,
published the first public
draft of WCAG 3.0.
This is still a very,
very early draft and we
would love your comments.
We, of course, want
to make WCAG 3.0 more
testable and so we
want to look at as much
approaches, as much
carry-over as possible
of the ACT Rules.
At the same time, WCAG 3 has
a very new conformance model.
So, they are looking
at different ways of
evaluating, so not just
binary but maybe on a scale.
This is maybe a topic for
another webinar about WCAG
3.0 but the thing is, yes,
we are working closely to
try to get - improve
the testing in future
versions of WCAG.